The Open Source Definition – Open Source Initiative Skip to content Get involved About About Learn more about OSI’s mission, history, people, and programs. Mission & History Team Board of Directors Programs Sponsors Financials & Annual Reports Board Minutes Logo & Trademark Contact us Featured Programs OSI Programs bring together our work to protect, advance, and strengthen Open Source. Read more Licensing Licensing Explore the list of OSI-Approved licenses and learn more about the license review process. Open Source Definition Licenses License Review Process License API Open Standards Requirement ClearlyDefined Featured Licenses Browse the complete list of licenses approved by the OSI. Read more Open Source AI Open Source AI Learn more about Open Source AI, how do we define it, and its benefits to society. Open Source AI OSAID 1.0 Process Timeline Open Weights FAQ Checklist Endorsements Featured Open Source AI The definition that establishes the principles and requirements for an AI system that grant users the freedoms to use, study, modify, and share. Read more News News Explore the latest news, blog posts, newsletters, press mentions, and events from the OSI. Blog Newsletter Press Mentions Events Featured OSI Newsletter sign-up Sign up for OSI's monthly newsletter and explore all past editions. Read more Get involved About About Learn more about OSI’s mission, history, people, and programs. Mission & History Team Board of Directors Programs Sponsors Financials & Annual Reports Board Minutes Logo & Trademark Contact us Featured Programs OSI Programs bring together our work to protect, advance, and strengthen Open Source. Read more Licensing Licensing Explore the list of OSI-Approved licenses and learn more about the license review process. Open Source Definition Licenses License Review Process License API Open Standards Requirement ClearlyDefined Featured Licenses Browse the complete list of licenses approved by the OSI. Read more Open Source AI Open Source AI Learn more about Open Source AI, how do we define it, and its benefits to society. Open Source AI OSAID 1.0 Process Timeline Open Weights FAQ Checklist Endorsements Featured Open Source AI The definition that establishes the principles and requirements for an AI system that grant users the freedoms to use, study, modify, and share. Read more News News Explore the latest news, blog posts, newsletters, press mentions, and events from the OSI. Blog Newsletter Press Mentions Events Featured OSI Newsletter sign-up Sign up for OSI's monthly newsletter and explore all past editions. Read more Get Involved Open Main Menu Home The Open Source Definition The Open Source Definition Page created on July 7, 2006 | Last modified on February 16, 2024 Introduction Open source doesn’t just mean access to the source code. The distribution terms of open source software must comply with the following criteria: 1. Free Redistribution The license shall not restrict any party from selling or giving away the software as a component of an aggregate software distribution containing programs from several different sources. The license shall not require a royalty or other fee for such sale. 2. Source Code The program must include source code, and must allow distribution in source code as well as compiled form. Where some form of a product is not distributed with source code, there must be a well-publicized means of obtaining the source code for no more than a reasonable reproduction cost, preferably downloading via the Internet without charge. The source code must be the preferred form in which a programmer would modify the program. Deliberately obfuscated source code is not allowed. Intermediate forms such as the output of a preprocessor or translator are not allowed. 3. Derived Works The license must allow modifications and derived works, and must allow them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of the original software. 4. Integrity of The Author’s Source Code The license may restrict source-code from being distributed in modified form only if the license allows the distribution of “patch files” with the source code for the purpose of modifying the program at build time. The license must explicitly permit distribution of software built from modified source code. The license may require derived works to carry a different name or version number from the original software. 5. No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups The license must not discriminate against any person or group of persons. 6. No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor The license must not restrict anyone from making use of the program in a specific field of endeavor. For example, it may not restrict the program from being used in a business, or from being used for genetic research. 7. Distribution of License The rights attached to the program must apply to all to whom the program is redistributed without the need for execution of an additional license by those parties. 8. License Must Not Be Specific to a Product The rights attached to the program must not depend on the program’s being part of a particular software distribution. If the program is extracted from that distribution and used or distributed within the terms of the program’s license, all parties to whom the program is redistributed should have the same rights as those that are granted in conjunction with the original software distribution. 9. License Must Not Restrict Other Software The license must not place restrictions on other software that is distributed along with the licensed software. For example, the license must not insist that all other programs distributed on the same medium must be open source software. 10. License Must Be Technology-Neutral No provision of the license may be predicated on any individual technology or style of interface. The Open Source Definition was originally derived from the Debian Free Software Guidelines (DFSG). Version 1.9, last modified, 2007-03-22 Here’s the historical “ Annotated OSD ” from the early 2000’s. Get involved Mastodon Twitter LinkedIn Reddit About Misson & History Team Board of Directors Programs Sponsors Financials & Annual Reports Board Minutes Logo & Trademark Contact us Licensing Open Source Definition Licenses License Review Process License API Open Standards Requirement ClearlyDefined Open Source AI Open Source AI OSAID 1.0 Process Timeline Open Weights FAQ Checklist Endorsements News Blog Newsletter Press Mentions Events The content on this website, of which Opensource.org is the author, is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License . Opensource.org is not the author of any of the licenses reproduced on this site. Questions about the copyright in a license should be directed to the license steward. Read our Privacy Policy Proudly powered by WordPress. Hosted by Pressable. Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent